# 1.5.5 Exercises

1. The mpg data frame that is bundled with the ggplot2 package contains 234 observations collected by the US Environmental Protection Agency on 38 car models. Which variables in mpg are categorical? Which variables are numerical? (Hint: Type ?mpg to read the documentation for the dataset.) How can you see this information when you run mpg?

2. Make a scatterplot of hwy vs. displ using the mpg data frame. Next, map a third, numerical variable to color, then size, then both color and size, then shape. How do these aesthetics behave differently for categorical vs. numerical variables?

3. In the scatterplot of hwy vs. displ, what happens if you map a third variable to linewidth?

4. What happens if you map the same variable to multiple aesthetics?

5. Make a scatterplot of bill_depth_mm vs. bill_length_mm and color the points by species. What does adding coloring by species reveal about the relationship between these two variables? What about faceting by species?

6. Why does the following yield two separate legends? How would you fix it to combine the two legends?
  ggplot(
    data = penguins,
    mapping = aes(
      x = bill_length_mm, y = bill_depth_mm, 
      color = species, shape = species
    )
  ) +
    geom_point() +
    labs(color = "Species")

7. Create the two following stacked bar plots. Which question can you answer with the first one? Which question can you answer with the second one?
  ggplot(penguins, aes(x = island, fill = species)) +
    geom_bar(position = "fill")
  ggplot(penguins, aes(x = species, fill = island)) +
    geom_bar(position = "fill")
